Good morning and welcome.
The topic today for our first session is
Third Party Client Management Solutions:
Managing Mac OS X in the Enterprise.
Presenting is Senior Consulting
Engineer John DeTroye.
Good morning, the dedicated few,
the ones who survived the party,
survived the week.
We're whistling the tune to
the longest day this morning.
[Transcript missing]
Client management lifecycle.
Some of you have attended the desktop
management session yesterday and over
the last year or so you've seen this.
[Transcript missing]
Remote Control, Help Desk,
Training Center, and Teaching Lab.
Usage Management,
Keeping the Users on Track.
This doesn't necessarily mean
you can't launch something,
although it does,
but it also means keeping the
systems more in tune with what
the policies and procedures are,
the acceptable use stuff, you know,
not putting software on
systems you shouldn't have,
being able to use the software you want
in a teaching environment and education.
It comes down to if you sit down in front
of a computer and the instructor wants
you to use a certain piece of software,
that's what they want you to use.
They don't want you off
here doing something else.
License management, key thing.
Okay.
In fact, it's tapered off a bit now,
but just think of all of the articles
we saw in all the IT magazines
and InfoWorld and so forth,
with everybody talking about
all the lawsuits flying around.
You know, Company A bought one copy
of such and such software,
and they deployed it 11,000 times and
thought they could get away with it,
you know, or didn't know.
They just got a copy in for evaluation,
and somebody left it on their desk,
and next thing you know, it's everywhere.
Patch and upgrade.
We're back to that.
I did the image,
but now I need to upgrade my systems.
I need to do lots of them.
And then the help desk management,
which is the call for help.
I need something.
Take a look at this for me.
Talk to me.
My favorite one is the email message
you get that says the internet is down.
Do you respond to them by email
telling them that you don't think so?
Or do you just call them
on the phone and go,
"Really?
Is it?" There are days when we
wish it actually just would go
down and stay there for a while.
Well, let's take a look at all
the different players.
Alphabetically, I'm going to go through
them except for Apple.
I get away with that.
Apple Client Management Solutions.
We have three primary
pieces that we play within.
Apple Remote Desktop,
the NetBoot NetInstall technologies,
and Managed Client for Mac OS X.
Apple Remote Desktop is designed
to support software distribution,
asset management,
some remote administrative tools,
and the remote assistance
or the help desk stuff.
In a nutshell,
we handle distribution and updates
by the way of copying files,
packages, and so forth out across the
network doing remote installs.
We can do asset tracking through reports,
and we can do remote administration.
We can control and observe workstations,
one or many.
We can also copy and
delete files on a system,
and one of the ones that
everybody likes to brag about
is the sending Unix commands.
That can be done out to
a whole lot of systems.
So, yes,
you can send one of that RMDIR-R,
you know.
Yes, you can.
[Transcript missing]
We can support Mac OS X and Mac OS 9
images with Netboot technology.
And the images can be anything.
I can have complete image sets.
I can have departmental image sets,
you know, the staff versus the technical
support people versus the people
in the library versus the people in
the research department can all have
completely different Netboot sets.
I can have a diagnostic set.
So instead of me running around with a
bunch of CDs or a bunch of floppy disks
or FireWire drives or whatever I need,
I can actually Netboot to a
complete set of diagnostic tools
and then work on the system.
I can do installers,
automated installers.
The automated installer is
what we call the unintentional
install where the system,
you boot to it,
it automatically erases your drive,
installs the operating
system and everything.
And it's really fun to have
somebody who has a good system
sit down and accidentally do that.
That could be really fun.
Now erasing hard drive.
And you can do upgrade sets so that
you can also store packages and so
forth out on the net and have them
available so you can do an upgrade.
A single image can span multiple
servers or you can have multiple
servers supporting a single image
for throughput so that you can have
this single Netboot image sitting
on a whole cluster of X servers.
We like to see that.
Netbooting a whole bunch of machines.
And the pictures you've seen this week.
Of the University of Tokyo Netboot lab,
that's what they're doing.
They use a single image but a whole
cluster of servers and it load balances.
Managed Client for Mac OS X is,
in a nutshell,
the ability to set up a defined
experience for the end user.
And it can be done by user level,
group level, work group level,
or by computer level.
So I can define the settings
for different machines.
It's network-based preference management.
[Transcript missing]
So that was Apple.
AltiriS.
AltiriS has some really,
really fascinating stuff that
they brought to the IT lifecycle
management for the Mac.
They have a completely heterogeneous
cross-platform environment,
and here's some of the tools that come
with the AltiriS client management
suite in that they support Mac,
Windows, the Unix platforms, Linux,
and some of the handheld OSs.
[Transcript missing]
Server-side components.
It is Windows server-based.
It uses a web-based admin console.
Everybody talks about how they
want a lot of things web-based.
Very, very good for that.
Role in scope-based security to
make sure that you stay within
the limits that you're allowed
and encrypting the transport.
We don't want all the asset
management information to move
across the net in the clear.
Plus, things like adaptive display
technology so that you can handle that.
I don't know if they handle
the spoken interface stuff
that we've just introduced,
but that is definitely something that a
lot of people look at for qualification
when they bring their software into play.
The shortcuts and wizards,
obviously something to help you get up
to speed really quickly so that we're
not spending a lot of time learning
how to use all the different pieces.
And extensible is obviously a
requirement in that we want to be
able to take the architecture and say,
you know,
I always need the one more thing.
And it's really good not to have
everything boiler-plated for me.
Another idea of a report from
them is going out and looking at
all my systems on the network and
getting a pretty decent report of,
you know, what's there.
And you notice that doing it as a
web-based report makes it really simple.
You know,
pick your browser and go for it.
The Mac agent,
important to the Mac community,
is the fact that it looks
like it's a Macintosh piece.
It does follow the look
and feel of the Mac.
Some of the features that I like in
this are the ability to be able to
do blockout periods where I can say,
you know, at this time I don't want
things being brought to me.
You know, there's a period in which work
gets done versus updates get done.
Checkpoint recovery,
the idea of being able to say, you know,
what if we get an interruption during the
update process or during the reporting
process and we want to be able to say,
you know, resume at a later time.
And then things like scheduled
wake-ups for the systems,
you know, nighttime we want to do
the updates at 2 a.m.
so we wake the systems up, handle,
take care of the reports, the inventory,
and so forth.
And then being able to do client-side
logging so that we can keep track
of everything on there and see
what's been happening with it.
The roadmap for Altiri,
the inventory solution for the Mac,
and the software delivery solution,
second half of 2004.
The deployment solution
with patch management.
And the remote control
portions are slated for 2005.
And here are some of the customers
that will definitely crow about
what Altiri has been up to.
This is the first of many reminders that
the Enterprise IT Lab from noon to 3
today is going to have these companies.
All these people are going to be
over there to be able to answer
questions and talk to you about
stuff and get a chance to take a
look at some of their solutions.
FileWave.
FileWave is software distribution
and asset management for the Mac.
They're a cross-platform desktop and
portable management solution provider,
and they provide their solution
fully native to the Mac OS.
That's both client and server
are native to the Mac OS.
The FileWave products,
they have software distribution.
The software distribution is
uses a Mac OS X-based server,
captures all the asset information
from the clients cross-platform,
and provides you with a series of
reports and information that I need
to be able to do my job from an
asset management point of view.
uses a Mac OS X-based server,
captures all the asset information
from the clients cross-platform,
and provides you with a series of
reports and information that I need
to be able to do my job from an
asset management point of view.
the clients will pull information
from the system and then provide
the reports back to the databases.
The server itself runs
as a Unix-based daemon.
It has an admin process and a file
server process for the client requests.
Very scalable using this booster
technology so that instead of having
just one server to worry about,
I can deploy multiple
servers out on the network.
The administrator-driven model
is the idea of you define as the
administrator who gets what packages,
who gets what parts in the distribution,
and at what time.
I can also...
Under FileWave,
I can drag and drop install.
So for instance, Office as an example is
a drag and drop install.
So I can take Office and I can drag it
into a FileWave set and it'll just deploy
it to the machines that are in that set.
I can also do customized installs
where I can take snapshots of systems.
I can build a known good system,
take a snapshot,
then install a bunch of components on it,
and then take another snapshot,
and then I can install that new
snapshot onto my systems across there,
across the network.
Very easy to use.
Here's an idea of the admin screen
with some of the things it brings up.
We have file sets, the clients and groups
that you can manage.
Very simple.
The FileWave client,
Unix daemon under Mac OS X,
a service under Windows.
It basically,
the client just pings the server
for an update when it's time for it,
grabs the manifest from the
server if there's an update,
and then pulls the solution
down from the storage,
from storage.
So, we have a, this, in this case,
it's a, when the client needs
to go get something,
it goes and gets it.
It's not a push,
it's a pull system at that point.
And here are what some people have had
to say about our friends at FileWave.
I like the extra plug for Netboot.
Netboot is cool.
If you want to visit FileWave,
you can either stay here in
San Francisco or you can go to
I think my boss is around here somewhere.
I have to go visit FileWave,
but they keep asking me.
It's a short trip, right?
: LANDesk used to be part of Intel.
LANDesk is its own entity now.
They're out in the client
management space fully.
Cross-platform,
very good client management suites.
Here's a look at some of their products.
The solution, you know,
and one of the things I really
like is I love grabbing graphics
from everybody for this stuff.
I mean, this is my client management.
Asset management, remote control,
problem resolution, patch management,
software license monitoring,
and software distribution
across Mac OS 9,
10, Linux, Unix, and Windows.
From a server side,
they use a PC server-based environment to
host the core of the management process.
[Transcript missing]
What it comes down to is that the admins
see exactly the same thing regardless
of whether they're managing Macs or PCs.
Very scalable.
[Transcript missing]
Here's an idea of some of the
pieces on the LANDesk side.
As an example, we have an update.
The policy manager found a
new update for the system.
[Transcript missing]
So we support Mac OS X 2, X 3,
and Mac OS 9.
Directory integration is key.
Directory integration is an
important piece with policy-based
management and the ability to do both
hardware and software inventories.
Remote control management,
taking charge of systems remotely,
and doing distribution with multicast.
Multicast is a key item in the fact
that when you do unicast broadcasts
versus multicast broadcasts,
you're talking about bandwidth
and the cost of network usage.
And having it localized into the
various languages makes deployment for
multinationals definitely a bonus here.
And here's the everything I can do slide.
And if you look at this,
we're actually looking at all the
devices that are out on a system,
looking at the computer.
You can spot the computers
that are sitting there,
looking at the tasks that are scheduled,
looking at the patches
that are set up to run,
looking at all of the different inventory
information that's available up here.
And at the same time,
and this is something that
always makes me just kind of...
You wonder, every time I see a PC window
with a Mac screen on it,
it's just, it's always,
that's fascinating to me.
But then it's, you know,
it's kind of like the same thing that
when we did the ARD demo and we were
showing the Windows screen on that.
You know,
when you go back and forth between
that with all the different products,
I think that's so cool that
we can go back and forth,
you know, and share screens and look
at everybody else's stuff.
And it ought to be that way.
You ought to be able to just do it,
right?
And here's some comments on
Landesk from the customers.
The resources for LANDesk
and this information will be
available again at the end of
the session and over in the IT,
over in the Enterprise IT Lab.
Once again, from noon to three,
make sure you stop in and
take a look at these guys.
Marimba, another significant player in
the client management space.
Change in configuration
management across platform,
Unix, Windows, Mac, right?
Very key.
Desktops, portables, and servers,
the whole gamut.
Software delivery,
getting the software out to the systems,
installing the software,
providing updates when needed,
being able to get information,
inventory management, asset management,
checking on the status
of that deployment,
what's happening, you know,
has everybody been upgraded,
where are they in the process?
From a client management perspective,
we're talking about
managing software change.
We have known good systems that go out.
You need to modify that.
You get new software.
You get updates.
You want to be able to
manage that entire lifecycle.
So being able to package applications,
being able to target the distribution
to specific systems that need it,
and being able to follow
compliance of that.
We don't want to turn around and say,
well, we bought 30 licenses of this,
but oops, we accidentally installed
it on 3,000 computers.
You know,
we've heard the term unattended installs.
[Transcript missing]
Well,
we also have the unintended installs.
And that's when the, "Oh,
I really only meant to
put 10 copies of that out,
not 10,000."
[Transcript missing]
Ongoing management, obviously we want to
track what's going on.
We want our assets tracked.
We want to know what's on every system.
You know, if somebody comes in and brings
the Walmart CD in over the weekend
and sticks it on their computer,
we want to get a report back and
say that isn't supposed to be there.
And collecting inventory information.
Here's an idea of looking at some of the
information and seeing what's out there.
This is the tuner to be
able to go out and say,
"Here's the information that
I want to subscribe to with the
updates for various packages."
So the administrator can set up what
they want made available to the users.
And we do it from a
centralized point of view.
So what we can do is there's
obviously a range of common tasks
that we want so that the users get
guided through the normal stuff.
You know,
the users being the administrators get
guided through the normal stuff of what
they want to be able to put together.
And then the idea of
centralized administration.
We're back to that.
I have thousands of workstations or
tens of thousands of workstations
and I don't want to have to
run around every single site,
department,
or group and make this stuff happen.
Okay.
Setting up policies based
on users and machines.
We want to ensure
policy-based management.
What we have to have here is the
ability to work with the directory
architecture that exists so that we can
develop the architecture that exists.
To define who gets what when based
on a directory that's already in
place and to be able to do updates.
The versionless update idea is
doing patch update management
based on the parts that are
common without worrying about,
you know, which version of the software
we have versus also being
able to do patch updates,
you know, from 1.1 to 1.11 and so forth.
and then being able to verify.
Verification is absolutely essential.
All too often I've seen cases
where we've put out updates
and stuff to 100 machines,
but you get no feedback that
all 100 machines got it.
And getting verification
back is absolutely essential.
Policy compliance.
Notice the graphic up here.
I like this that we're looking at.
It's saying that how much of the package,
the green, shows that they're compliant
either at 80%, 70%. In red,
they're showing how much
they're non-compliant,
how much they're outside of policy.
And then the blue is they haven't
reported in about that stuff.
But you look at that and you go, oh.
Okay.
You know, green is good.
I mean, as an administrator, you know,
we all think, yeah, you know,
I can complicate my life a certain way,
but green is good.
I can just, you know,
look at a report and go, oh, yeah, okay,
cool.
We're set.
Everything's nice.
Inventory discovery,
predefined reports help set up
your environment for you so that
we can turn around using a browser
and we can get the reports.
We can graph these out and say, you know,
here's how much stuff I have
and get the charts out.
I can also scan.
[Transcript missing]
Client detail, designed for mobility,
designed for offline use.
The key things here are
the checkpoint restart.
That's number one in that
I want to be able to,
if I'm busy doing a check,
if I'm busy doing a report,
if it breaks from the network,
it'll come back and restart
right at the checkpoint.
And the fact that it's
multi-platform is very important.
Now, marimba's been acquired.
and they are adding in the remedy.
You know, the remedy is being added in,
or Marimba's adding remedy to the--
Yeah, BMC software is requiring them,
so they're going to be using remedies
coming in over top of Marimba to add
functionality to the environment.
And what we're looking at here is
to be able to expand the capability
to be able to do repositories,
dynamic discovery of systems, okay,
being able to dynamically capture
systems when they show up,
to be able to support literally
everything for applications,
code changes in the system.
and once again policy based
[Transcript missing]
All right, Harley-Davidson and NASA.
Now, there's a meeting.
And they will be in the lab,
the enterprise lab,
so you can take a look at their stuff.
Okay?
Netopia, another key provider in the
Macintosh client management space.
Netopia,
easy to manage client administrations,
remote support, admin,
absolutely fully cross-platform.
Timbuk2 Pro.
Timbuk2 Pro has been
around for quite a while.
A lot of people have been using
Timbuk2 Pro to do remote control,
observe, and so forth.
File transfers, copies, one to many.
Chatting, instant messaging,
and so forth.
And NetOctopus for reporting,
asset management,
checking on your hardware,
checking on your software,
doing remote setup,
setting system settings remotely,
being able to grab and install software.
Data, files, folders,
packages across the network.
Here's some of the stuff
within the NetOctopus admin.
Gathering font information,
transferring file folders,
virus scanning, restarting, put to sleep.
Doesn't apply to the users.
Oh, that Bill over in accounting.
Let's just put him to sleep.
For the administrators,
you can also run this peer-to-peer,
so you can do point-to-point.
You don't need the
server to get in there.
You can just go point-to-point and
do one machine to another machine,
control, manage,
and do asset management from a
point-to-point point of view.
And you can use the internal
database within NetOctopus,
or you can point it out to
an external database such as
Oracle or any of the SQL stuff,
DB2.
And the software delivery system,
we put one distribution server in place,
and then you can set
additional staging servers out.
It is a poll-based
environment from the clients.
Once the clients have been told
that there is a manifest available
or a load set available for them,
then they will go and get it based on
the schedules that are established.
And you can also create
sub-administrators and limit
which tasks the sub-admins can do.
So we can say, you know,
I want people to only be able
to do this small component.
of all of the administration.
Here's a couple more screenshots.
For instance, the software package setup.
What do I want to install?
What parts do I want to go out?
And then the log coming back from
the distribution center saying,
what happened?
What was I doing?
For the end users, use Timbuk2.
The idea is--
The chatting, the text messaging,
and so forth between systems,
but it also has the opt-in
capability where I can say as a user,
no,
I don't want to be bothered right now.
Don't, you know, go away.
I don't want to talk to you.
Okay.
and NetOctopus agent
includes a smart monitoring,
same stuff that we use on the XSERV,
okay, to be able to give you a warning
when the hard drive is going
to get weird or something,
you know, when we want to react to that.
A couple more screenshots.
This is the Timbuk2 chat, sending files,
exchanging files, and screen sharing.
The roadmap for NetOctopus,
some of the things they're planning
in the second half of 2004.
They're talking about adding in patch
management for Mac and PC clients,
putting in a software license manager,
putting in a web-based UI for NetOctopus.
Integrating with Rendezvous and
integrating with Active Directory.
All key things to watch for.
10 million computers worldwide.
And once again,
Netopia will also be in the lab,
and they'll be up here as part of
the Q&A at the end of the session.
Sassafras software.
K2, highest mountain in the world.
That depends on, you know,
where the laser bounces.
[Transcript missing]
Cross-platform support
including thin client support,
Mac, PC, Linux.
[Transcript missing]
Key server itself.
Active control of all license types.
This not only includes the generic,
you know, I want to control an app
that doesn't have a license,
I just own software license copies,
but even as granular as saying
I have Mac address-based software.
[Transcript missing]
And if you have multiple licenses
out in a client and you realize
that in your reports you can go back
and I can reallocate and reclaim
licenses that don't get used.
I look at a machine and found out I put
a bunch of software on there that for
the last six months they never launched.
And I can go back and I can say, no,
I don't need that anymore.
And I can pull the license for
those people and they can't
use that software anymore.
The reports and databases, very intense.
Bunch of built-in reports,
detailed audits.
These are just some of the reports
that come up under the menu.
Pick a few.
The daily license report,
the hardware report,
what kind of logins have we seen,
what kind of usage are we seeing
from user versus application,
you know, how many licenses times how
many users are out there.
Give me a weekly program report of what
applications have been used this week.
You think about the end of
the year comes around and some
company sends you a bill and says,
oh, it's time to renew your $27,000
license for the software you bought,
and you go back and you find
out you used it for 11 hours.
And you go, ooh, that's expensive.
Right?
And then, you know, you do your audit,
but obviously you've got to follow up,
so you need to do software
compliance with that.
Okay,
and this is actually where I told John,
I said, this is where the unintended
incremental software audit came in.
This is the IRS shows up and checks you.
The unattended,
because the system itself will actually
perform its audits in the background,
doesn't involve any admin
or user interaction.
Okay, new computers and applications
that show up on the net are
automatically discovered.
And you can establish automatic policies.
You know, if I only want 30 copies of
this software to be used,
user 31 launching the software will
be stopped in their tracks being told,
no, you can't do this.
[Transcript missing]
The admin console, cross-platform.
We can configure literally from anywhere.
You cart your PowerBook around,
launch the admin console, plug in,
start making changes.
Organizing things by organizational unit,
where it says separate divisions,
you think of organizational units
that you do for your management.
And I can create license
records that I track for
every single different system.
[Transcript missing]
For more information, once again,
the lab, noon to 3.
Go grab a bag lunch?
Go there.
You will definitely,
definitely benefit from the experience.
I just plugged that in in
the middle of everything.
Additional resources for tracking
down stuff for Sasfras software.
Okay.
They're up in New Hampshire.
Go visit them.
Nice country.
That white paper,
you want to download that
and take a look at it.
Good information there.
[Transcript missing]
Those are the key players that
I'm going to have up here for
Q&A here in a couple minutes.
I also wanted to let you
know that in the Mac space,
there are a whole lot of
other players out there that
are doing client management.
And just as a real brief mention is
an idea of Jamf Software with Casper
for software imaging and updates.
For ONNX Deep Freeze for management
and control of the systems,
basically locking a system
down that the user uses it,
logs in, does their thing,
and when they log out,
it returns it back to its known state.
Autonomic with the
ANSA Patch Management solution and
Integrity Software with SoftTrack.
There's a lot of client
management people who are very,
very much investing in
Macintosh and Mac OS X.
It's not the, oh yeah,
those things just go in the
graphics department anymore,
you know?
Now they go into graphics department and
you can keep track of them and not feel,
you know,
like you're doing something strange or...
[Transcript missing]
And here's my esteemed panel group.
If you guys want to go
ahead and come on up,
and we'll-- I promise not to
bang the microphone on the table.
They told me not to do that.
You guys, just line up as if the
firing squad was right here.
Yeah.
Put your toes on the line.
There you go.
Okay.
Thumbs along the seam of your trousers.
They don't know me.
Okay, we won't do basic training,
but I'll have you guys go
ahead and introduce yourselves.
What company?
Sound up over here.
My name is Martin Bestman from Netopia,
and I am the R&D Director for
NetOctopus development.
Hi, I'm Jeanne Moraine from Marimba.
I'm a senior product manager over
their client desktop management suite.
Hello, my name is Steve Workman,
and I'm the Director of
Product Management for LANDesk Software.
Good morning, I'm Jerome Brookhausen.
I'm the development manager at
Altiri for Macintosh products.
Ben Forsythe Hi, my name is Ben Forsythe.
I'm the technical manager at FileWave.
John Tominey Hi, I'm John Tominey.
I'm the director of marketing
with Sassafras Software.
Cool.
So we get people lined up.
The microphones are on center.
And we have a question
right in the middle.
Aaron Krimble from Gannett.
Does anybody support router or
switch auditing and discovery?
Or is it just machine-based?
In NetOctopus we have a SNMP council
and it does discovery of all devices
out there network that can talk SNMP.
We also support a whole range
of special MIPS and if there's a
MIP that you need to be looking at,
we can compile it and
put it into the product.
That's not a problem.
As part of the LANDesk Management Suite,
we also have a component called
Unmanaged Device Discovery that will
discover those types of devices,
anything with an
IP address we can pick up.
With our Asset Trustee product,
we have an SNMP scanner that will scan
the network for any SNMP talking device.
Thank you.
After July 15th,
we'll have a network discovery product.
Remedy actually has something that
does asset discovery in those elements.
Marimba handles more of the
actual systems themselves.
Thank you.
Cool.
Joel Nation, St.
Mariners Club Restaurants.
I just want to know,
we have complex installations,
so things that aren't normal,
and I want to be able to do
them on my clients without them
actually seeing it going on.
Does any of the software that
you guys produce do that?
So with FileWave,
there's no user interaction
available or needed.
The administrator sets up the complex
install and captures those files and
places them in the FileWave server
and associates them with the groups
of clients that will download those.
Then the clients check with the
FileWave server for that software.
They download it and
automatically install it.
So, yeah,
the same is true for an ad octopus.
You can build really complex
installation packages you want
with dependencies whatsoever.
And you can even also specify
how much user interaction
you want on the client end.
And clients can even defer package
installation for a later time during
the day or a couple of days later.
And you get full reporting of what the
user chooses to do with the package.
We have various modes of installation,
so you can either do silent, semi-silent,
or a full custom install.
So it really depends on your
environment and how you want to set up.
And then our packaging is all based on,
you can do it based on policies.
You can set what users get what type of
installs on their machines and remotely
deploy it out to their systems that way.
We have a lot of the same functionality
as well that you can set up in a
policy base or a push base for either
transparent client installation
or request client input as well.
Oh, it's over here first.
Sorry.
Scott Lim, University of Michigan.
I want to bring up a topic we
don't normally get to discuss
at conferences like this,
and that's the actual cost of licensing.
I think Apple's got it right,
licensing by administrator.
Licensing by the number of
computers or computer access
licenses are not the way to go.
It gets prohibitively expensive.
I can say no to an administrator license.
I can't say no to a new computer.
I would prefer to see more
licensing based on administrators
than based on number of computers.
I just want to ask you to clarify what
you mean by licensing by administrator.
I'm sure that some people
understand your intention,
but others may not.
Aside from Sassafras,
because I love you guys.
Pardon me?
Aside from Sassafras,
because I love you guys.
The way ARD is licensed right now,
we license it by the
number of administrators.
So I buy a copy for each administrator
that's going to use the system.
Where I buy Netopia,
I license by how many computers I have,
and my computers go up exponentially.
The other problem I have is when you
have those ghost computers that seem
to get in the way of true count,
I'm being licensed for that now,
and I don't even know which ones
are real and which ones aren't.
So you're asking for our
products to be licensed that way?
Correct.
I'll begin.
I guess a lot of other people
have things to say then.
By the way, K2 from Sassafras Software is
licensed both by individual node,
which most of you are familiar with,
many of you are.
But we have a new licensing program
that we've introduced in the last year
that allows floating client licensing.
And it doesn't sound exactly
the way that the name implies,
but it's very, very useful,
especially in higher eds
and K-12 education sites.
Maybe I'd just add for FileWave,
for higher ed especially,
we have special licensing where
we offer low-cost licensing,
still based on the number of clients,
but it's good feedback.
Low cost is relative.
Excuse me?
Yeah, well...
That's interesting feedback.
We'll take that into consideration.
There are parts of our product offering
that we do license per administrator
or per console on a concurrent basis.
So we are seeing the
need for some of that.
And like I said,
we'll take that feedback and take that
into consideration as we look forward.
One thing to note,
we do license by our endpoint clients,
but we also have
enterprise-wide packages.
Part of the reason why we do that is
because we have some customers that have
millions of endpoints like Music Match.
So it really depends on your environment.
And so the complexity that
you're asking for in the
endpoint to change the licensing,
it also goes back into the support.
What does it take to support the
number of endpoints users and the
expectation for quality of service?
So you've got to put that into
the licensing mix as well.
But my purchase is going
to be based on the cost,
not based on your cost.
And you always get what you pay for,
right?
That's the key thing.
In certain environments,
we also do a global company-wide or
university-wide licensing schemes where
we do not count each individual computer,
but you get just a company-wide license,
and that may work for you.
So you should talk to us if
you have a scenario like this.
Cool.
Okay.
Guys, hang on to it for a second.
Richard.
Richard Glaser with
the University of Utah,
Microsoft Labs.
First, I want to make a comment.
You didn't mention the open source
tools that a lot of people are
using in enterprise deployments.
So, example, Radmine.
A lot of big companies are using it.
So, people in the audience,
it's open source, free.
You might really consider looking at
that before you pay for a solution.
You might not need to.
Second, what type of installers
do you guys support?
Do you support package installers?
Richard Glaser:
Do you have to repackage installers
to use it with your solutions,
distribute applications?
We support a wide variety of
package installation formats.
The key thing is we do have,
with a lot of the installer products
out there out there in the market today,
if you want to use various
ones that are available,
they can put a wrapper on it and
push it out through our technology.
We have different agents that
are available that you can
create custom installers for
if that's what you want to do.
We also support third-party
package installers and can provide,
once they're packaged up,
we can then do the software distribution,
either push or pull base,
but it's just a broad
third-party application support.
We have a similar story at Altiriis.
If you have something that's
been packaged through one of
the third-party solutions,
like device or Aladdin or any of them,
we'll be able to push those out.
Similarly,
on the Windows side of the fence,
we have recently acquired
Wise Solutions and have
installer technology available
through that as well.
With FileWave,
the paradigm is a little bit different,
let me say.
So we actually don't deliver
installers necessarily.
We deliver the files that get installed.
So we'll support any installation,
essentially.
K2 from Sassafras has several rapid
deployment technologies available
both on Windows and Macintosh
and our tech support people can
tell you a lot more about that.
NetOcupus fully supports all kind of
installers including Apple PKGs and PKGs.
We even teamed up with MindVision
Software and we ship a special version
of MindVision Software installer-wise
that allows you to repackage
software and we have a snapshot
utility also in the product.
On the Windows front,
we fully support MSI installations and
all of the other installers out there.
Full integration with reporting, etc.
With regards to distributing
your software to both
desktop and portable clients,
how many of you support
interrupted and then resumed
downloads through your software?
That's the checkpoint restart
component that we had talked about.
And we actually, even for our own client,
we have remote deployment of the
agent out to the endpoints as well.
So after you've discovered it
through our discovery component,
you can push it out.
Yeah,
we also support resume installations when
mobile users move to a different spot or
get from the wire to the wireless network
that's fully automatic behind the scenes.
We also support installing our initial
agent throughout the network fully
automatically so you don't have to do a
sneaker net to install our own agents.
And with the next version,
we will also support that for
Mac OS X where you can get the agent out
to Mac OS X even though there's nothing
on that machine besides Mac OS X.
Support for mobile devices is
paramount for the LANDesk product.
We also provide the checkpoint restart,
dynamic bandwidth throttling,
those type of functions to support
interrupted distribution of software.
At Altiriis, we also support what we're
calling Checkpoint Recovery,
and we also have a bandwidth
throttling mode so that if the
bandwidth isn't sufficiently high,
we'll either not send it or we'll
send it slowly so that we can
better manage network traffic.
With FileWave,
the client is not necessarily
connected to the server at any time,
so laptops can be away
for weeks or months,
and when they get an active
network connection and they
can see the FileWave server,
they'll log in and
download their software.
If for some reason that's,
I guess you guys call it the checkpoint,
so if for some reason that
network connection is severed,
the client will pick
up where it left off.
Key Server Key Auditor works in concert
with other software deployment tools,
so we're not deploying
software ourselves,
but rather we're deploying licenses
through a very unique approach
that manages not only shared use,
concurrent use licenses,
but also manages node-locked
single computer licenses.
Will Jorgensen,
Pacific Northwest National Laboratories.
So for those of us who are
considering client management
solutions that are out there,
a lot of you have very similar features,
central management, patch management,
asset management.
And could each of you take a second
to give us the one distinguishing
feature or whatever you think makes
your particular product better
than others so that we can help?
John, do we have 30 seconds?
Yeah, keep it short, please.
I told them they could do that,
but they get 30 seconds apiece.
It's the elevator pitch.
So, yeah, go ahead, guys.
We've got plenty of time.
Key Server has been in the
marketplace since 1989.
We are one of the pioneers
in software asset management,
focused towards software license
management for many years.
A number of years ago,
we introduced software auditing,
hardware auditing, and integrated those
two products into K2.
Our unique point of advantage is that we
manage any type of a software license,
not just shared use licenses,
where many products will resort to
auditing to figure out how to manage
single user node-like licenses.
We actually manage them
in an active process,
and we integrate all of that together
into a web-based management council.
With FileWave and Asset Trustee,
we're a Macintosh-centric solution,
let's say.
So our servers are
running on the Macintosh,
and I think what distinguishes us is
we're a mass deployment technology
and a mass collection technology.
So where computers are coming
and going on and off networks,
FileWave can handle those situations
and be able to deploy from one location,
say, in the U.S., and you can deploy
to clients throughout the world.
When you buy an Altiri solution,
you're buying a rich history
that started on another platform.
But we have tremendous web
reporting and that makes it easier,
saves time,
and I think we have a depth in our
reporting capabilities that may
not be found in other solutions.
I think the biggest value
proposition for LANDESK software
is our rapid time to value.
What I mean by that is you can
actually take our solution and get
it installed and using it and getting
the payback from our feature set,
which is highly integrated,
all driven from a single console.
Again,
the value proposition for an IT manager
is that you can manage all devices,
regardless of the platform, the same way.
We're also very committed
to the Macintosh platform,
as you can see in the pie
chart that was put up earlier.
We nearly have all of those
pieces filled through inventory,
software distribution, patch management,
software license monitoring,
remote control.
We're going to continue to
innovate on the Macintosh platform
from that point going forward.
Our key differentiator is experience
and scalability and heterogeneity.
We have customers that range
from 500 to 15 million endpoints.
So if you look at like music match
that you've seen on your iPods,
we've been running on those
for since their inception.
Other things that when you look
at our particular products,
you think about policy orchestration.
We give you the choice push versus
pull based on policies that you set
up for users or machines so you can
formulate how you do your targeting
and distribution from one single
console based on your company or your
business versus based on our technology.
So it's flexibility, scalability,
and policy based orchestration.
Okay, for the Netopia products,
I can say that we are probably
the longest time on the Macintosh
platform starting in the late 80s.
And we are fully cross-platform
with the council and the client.
We are most parts using
the same source code base.
So you get really all the
features on both platforms,
can manage the clients
from both platforms,
very transparent.
And we are trying to design
everything for the mobile users.
If you look at our software
distribution system,
it's really designed for
the mobility of the users.
Do any of your products
support post-install actions?
For example,
Apple's installer includes the
provision for both a pre-flight
and a post-flight script.
I've been using the post-flight to
do things like repair permissions
after the installation is completed.
Our application packager enables you to
do both post- and pre-install components.
So if you need to do sequencing
of installations versus
actions after the install,
like kick off a particular application,
run an inventory scan,
report back to the system on compliance.
We have that built
into the product today.
Yeah, we have a similar approach too,
is we can provide chaining so one
event can take place with preconditions
associated before that event is required.
So we can do job chaining to accomplish
that question that you asked.
Okay, Altiri's also will deliver
a dependency-based solution,
and we also have an application
that can be run after installation.
With FileWave, we can schedule actions
at particular times,
so you can schedule a
post-installation action to run
any kind of script you'd like.
Martin keeps giving away the microphone,
so hang on to it this time.
Martin Blaser:
Same is true for NetOctopus.
You can do whatever you want
before installation or after
installation or part of the package.
And as I said, we bundle MindVision,
a version of MindVision installer-wise
where you can also build your own custom
preflight and post-flight shell scripts.
And the software delivery system also
supports executing shell scripts as
part of the installation process.
Richard.
Can you tell me if your products support
a tripwire and what mechanisms you
use to check the file system objects?
We never know where to begin here.
We do not support Tripwire today.
That's something that we are
actively looking at on our roadmap.
So if you want to stop
by our lab afterwards,
we'd be more than happy to talk
to you about your requirements.
How do you check your files
that something's not been
corrupted or modified compared
to what you're distributing?
Right, okay, so that's different.
We do do what we call an MD5 checksum.
We use open source descriptor
technology that we co-developed
with Microsoft back in '98.
In that particular piece,
what we do is we do a checksum,
an MD5 checksum on the file base
to see if anything's changed
in that digital fingerprint.
If it's changed on that
digital fingerprint,
then you can either do an automated
repair based on a backup that's stored in
the workspace or versus something you can
go to the head point of the server to do.
You set that up in your
installation piece.
Or you can do a backup.
You can do other things like do a help
desk or remote admin to the machine to
fix some of those elements to see if
there's any corruption for versioning.
With FileWave,
we have a self-healing mechanism
that works on a checksum,
essentially, that every day or every time
the computer's restarted,
it checks the integrity of the
delivery that you've made and
any files that are not matching
the checksum are automatically
downloaded and activated again.
Chris Mattia, St.
Mary's College of Maryland.
We have-- we've had a slight problem
over the last year with users bringing
their own laptops on the campus
and not having all of their updates
and virus protection up to date.
What sort of enforcement policies
or procedures do you all have in
any of your software to ensure that
those users get either moved to a
DMZ or locked out until they're in
compliance with all their updates?
Well,
with FileWave we don't have something
that specifically does that.
The best I could offer is that when the
client does have access to the network,
it will automatically get into
sync with what you've configured
on the FileWave server for it to
have as the appropriate software.
With the LANDesk product,
we have the capability to run a
vulnerability scan on the device
to determine if it's in compliance
or up to date with patches.
But one of the things that we're
looking at going forward is
concept around IP quarantining,
to where when you first
log onto the network,
you will be checked to make sure
that you're at a level before you're
allowed onto the rest of the network.
So that's plans that we
have moving forward in 2005.
So there's a couple things that we do.
Out of the box, we have policy compliance
component that I talked about.
So you can test the system
based on their policies.
It'll check the manifest and say,
are they in policy?
If they're not in policy,
it'll force them to do an update,
uninstall,
install things they're supposed to have.
The other thing that we have as part
of our field service resource kit is
something called an action reaction
engine that allows you to state specific
actions that you want the system to
take based on your company policy.
So if it's quarantine,
maybe you want them to
check and be at DMC first.
You can do that.
Or if there's other elements
that you want them to do,
you can do that.
Maybe they're already connected to the
LAN that you want to be able to check
in because maybe it's not a mobile user.
There's different things that
you can do in your system.
Of course,
the other option too is to make sure
if it doesn't have an Apple logo on it,
you take it away from them.
Hey, John.
Back to the MD5.
Do you use your own MD5 or are you
using the one that's built into OS X?
We have our own,
like the MD5 checksum that we do
were based off Java technologies.
Whether or not it's the same
one that's built in OS X,
unfortunately I don't know that,
but you can ask.
I brought one of my
engineers with me today.
Okay.
So stop by our lab and he'll
be able to tell you that.
Thanks.
Sorry.
I had a question.
Everybody mentioned package management.
Do you guys support
uninstalling the package?
Do you support OS updates
and OS installs?
Yes, we have an OS migration product
that we call Migration Manager.
So it'll help you migrate
your operating system.
Right now, it's currently primarily
targeted towards Windows.
We are planning Mac support
early next year.
The other thing that we have
as well as far as uninstalling
packages on the system,
we can do that as part
of our native tool today.
Can you downgrade OS?
So let's say you go to 10.2,
can you go back down to
10.1 if you wanted to,
let's say, for example?
We have rollback on the
application components.
Unfortunately,
I don't know the answer to that question,
but we can, you know, that's something,
like I said, we're planning for the Q1,
like early next year timeframe.
We'll be able to give you
more information then.
You can uninstall software if
you know what got installed.
We do not check the PKG receipts
because it's a little bit dangerous.
If you're running a MindVision
installer for installation,
yes, you can do the uninstall.
You can trigger that.
Regarding the software update, yes,
we do support all software upgrades.
With the exception,
we cannot do right now 10.1
to 10.2 or 10.2 to 10.3,
but we are currently looking into
possibilities to do that at least
then when Tiger comes out so that
we can migrate from 10.3 to Tiger.
In regards to the uninstall,
does the installer have to support that
or does your software support that?
The installer has to support that,
but you can also write your own.
We have a small installer that
would remove the various parts.
One comment:
Uninstalling is a very dangerous
thing because you do not know what
the installer really installed.
There's a way with NetOccupy to
find out what got installed using
FileScripter to get the snapshots
before and after the installation.
But you don't know if another software
requires the same framework or library.
And that makes it very
dangerous doing uninstalls.
You're referring primarily
to the operating system,
right?
Not packages?
Both.
Okay.
So for packages,
it's all based on the digital
fingerprint for the MD5 checksum.
So they'll do the uninstall and
look at interdependencies between
the packages on the file system and
then remove the components that are
associated with that given package.
And we have roaming user element support
coming in the later Q3 timeframe.
They'll be able to do it user-based.
So if you have multiple users
roaming users on a machine that
are leveraging the same package,
it'll look before it uninstalls
on the base system itself.
Just in reference to your operating
system deployment question,
we have a very robust migration,
profile migration,
OS deployment migration
as part of LANDesk,
primarily on the Windows side,
but we are looking at adding
that functionality for the
Mac platform in the near future.
With FileWave,
we can install OS updates as
well as application updates.
And since we're installing the files,
they can be deactivated and new
versions can be swapped in or out.
Does FileWave check for dependencies?
So if I want to remove one package,
but it's used by another package?
No, we don't check for
dependencies explicitly.
We leave that up to the administrator
to make those decisions.
Pretty powerful tools.
Can you speak to the robustness of
the granularity you have available
for different levels of admins?
Yes, part of LANDesk Management Suite,
we've added a feature component
called User Management,
which is really role-based
administration for each of the
components inside of our product.
We also provide the ability to set
a certain scope level so you can
have certain LANDesk administrators
access to certain functions and
manage certain people or devices.
The same is true for NetOctopus.
You can limit the administrator's
view to just view certain data,
and you can also limit administrators
to only administer certain client
workstations fully across platform.
There are no limits.
Whatever you want to do,
you can limit for your
sub-administrators.
For ours,
we have two roles-based administration
and delegation of roles,
and we actually bring it down to
the granular level in the sense
that it's do you want to target,
do you want to limit who has access to
set and what distribution deployments out
to what specific systems and machines.
We can have more granularity there.
We also have a roles-based targeting for
granularity on keychain objects as well
if you're doing more of a server-based
type of deployment to server systems.
So there's different levels of
roles-based administration and
granularity within our product set.
With K2, KeyServer, and KeyAuditor,
we have unlimited number of
administrator accounts that can be
created by the master administrator.
Each of those accounts can serve
any number of different roles.
There is a very expanded menu that
I can show you in the session later
on today between noon and three,
where you can pick and choose
whatever roles you want any one of
the administrators to have access to,
so that you can limit down to
just report viewing on up to full
access to the administration.
Cool.
Last question.
Hi.
I'm Mike Potter from
Calgary Board of Education.
I just wanted to reiterate about
the cost of client licensing.
We have about 12,000 Macs,
so most of the products
on a client-based license,
we can't afford your products.
My questions were in regard to...
We do custom images that have special
permissions on files and stuff.
When we're doing updates and pushes,
do you have any control over
permissions of the files that
are going on to the systems?
I'll speak to that client licensing
issue quickly just by adding that the
floating client option available in
K2 was developed in particular for
organizations that have very large
installations of computers and possibly
a small group of specialized programs
that you want to distribute to them.
It's a very affordable licensing option.
Since we don't do software distribution,
we'll go to the next.
Ten second answers, guys.
Okay.
So again,
we're FileWave for educational licensing.
We have a very good scheme
where we give you the software
and you just pay for support.
So I'd suggest we could
talk about that offline.
Regarding permissions,
every file that we control,
we can manage their permissions,
the bits and the groups
on them and the owner.
Just in the interest of time,
I'd love to talk more
about this with you.
We've got our engineering
development team here from LANDesk,
and if you want to stop
by a little bit later,
we can go into more detail
on that dependency question.
Ours is through the policy-based
orchestration I talked about earlier.
We do it both by machine-based
versus a user-based.
So for roaming users,
if you have multiple users on a machine,
but they may not necessarily have
permission for a particular application.